Add documentation for config file settings (#4058)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings.md

---
layout: default
title: Security settings
parent: Configuring OpenSearch
nav_order: 40
---

# Security settings

The Security plugin provides a number of YAML configuration files that are used to store the necessary settings that define the way the Security plugin manages users, roles, and activity within the cluster. For a full list of the Security plugin configuration files, see [Modifying the YAML files]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/).

The following sections describe security-related settings in `opensearch.yml`.

## Common settings

The Security plugin supports the following common settings:

-  `plugins.security.nodes_dn` (Static): Specifies a list of distinguished names (DNs) that denote the other nodes in the cluster. This setting supports wildcards and regular expressions. The list of DNs are also read from the security index **in addition** to the YAML configuration when `plugins.security.nodes_dn_dynamic_config_enabled` is `true`.

> - `plugins.security.nodes_dn_dynamic_config_enabled` (Static): Relevant for `cross_cluster` use cases where there is a need to manage the whitelisted `nodes_dn` without having to restart the nodes every time a new `cross_cluster` remote is configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.nodes_dn_dynamic_config_enabled` (Static): Relevant for `cross_cluster` use cases where there is a need to manage the  allow listed `nodes_dn` without having to restart the nodes every time a new `cross_cluster` remote is configured.
```

>   Setting `nodes_dn_dynamic_config_enabled` to `true` enables **super-admin callable** Distinguished Names APIs, which provide means to update or retrieve `nodes_dn` dynamically. This setting only has effect if `plugins.security.cert.intercluster_request_evaluator_class` is not set. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: Yes

- `plugins.security.dls.mode` (Static): Sets the document-level security (DLS) evaluation mode. Default is `adaptive`. See [How to set the DLS evaluation mode]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/document-level-security/#how-to-set-the-dls-evaluation-mode-in-opensearchyml).

- `plugins.security.compliance.salt` (Static): The salt to use when generating the hash value for field masking. Must be at least 32 characters. Only ASCII characters are allowed. Optional.

- `config.dynamic.http.anonymous_auth_enabled` (Static): Enables anonymous authentication. This will cause all HTTP authenticators to not challenge. Default is `false`.

## REST management API settings

The Security plugin supports the following REST management API settings:

- `plugins.security.restapi.roles_enabled` (Static): Enables role-based access to the REST management API for listed roles. Roles are separated by a comma. Default is an empty list (no role is allowed to access the REST management API). See [Access control for the API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/api/#access-control-for-the-api).

> - `plugins.security.restapi.endpoints_disabled.<role>.<endpoint>` (Static): Disables specific endpoints and their HTTP methods for roles. Values for this setting compose an array of HTTP methods. For example: `plugins.security.restapi.endpoints_disabled.all_access.ACTIONGROUPS: ["PUT","POST","DELETE"]`. By default, all endpoints and methods are allowed. Existing endpoints include: `ACTIONGROUPS`, `CACHE`, `CONFIG`, `ROLES`, `ROLESMAPPING`, `INTERNALUSERS`, `SYSTEMINFO`, `PERMISSIONSINFO`, `LICENSE`. See [Access control for the API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/api/#access-control-for-the-api).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.restapi.endpoints_disabled.<role>.<endpoint>` (Static): Disables specific endpoints and their HTTP methods for roles. Values for this setting compose an array of HTTP methods. For example: `plugins.security.restapi.endpoints_disabled.all_access.ACTIONGROUPS: ["PUT","POST","DELETE"]`. By default, all endpoints and methods are allowed. Existing endpoints include `ACTIONGROUPS`, `CACHE`, `CONFIG`, `ROLES`, `ROLESMAPPING`, `INTERNALUSERS`, `SYSTEMINFO`, `PERMISSIONSINFO`, and `LICENSE`. See [Access control for the API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/api/#access-control-for-the-api).
```

- `plugins.security.restapi.password_validation_regex` (Static): Specifies a regular expression to set the criteria for the login password. For more information, see [Password settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings).

- `plugins.security.restapi.password_validation_error_message` (Static): Specifies an error message that loads when a password doesn’t pass validation. This setting is used in conjunction with `plugins.security.restapi.password_validation_regex`.

- `plugins.security.restapi.password_min_length` (Static): Sets the minimum number of characters for the password length when using the score-based password strength estimator. The default is 8. This is also the minimum. For more information, see [Password settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/yaml/#password-settings).

> - `plugins.security.restapi.password_score_based_validation_strength` (Static): Sets a threshold to determine whether the password is strong or weak. Valid values are `fair`, `good`, `strong`, `very_strong`. This setting is used in conjunction with `plugins.security.restapi.password_min_length`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.restapi.password_score_based_validation_strength` (Static): Sets a threshold to determine whether the password is strong or weak. Valid values are `fair`, `good`, `strong`, and `very_strong`. This setting is used in conjunction with `plugins.security.restapi.password_min_length`.
```

- `plugins.security.unsupported.restapi.allow_securityconfig_modification` (Static): Enables the use of the PUT and PATCH methods for the configuration APIs.

## Advanced settings

The Security plugin supports the following advanced settings:

> - `plugins.security.authcz.impersonation_dn` (Static): Enables transport layer impersonation. This allows distinguished names (DNs) to impersonate as other users. See [User impersonation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/impersonation/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.authcz.impersonation_dn` (Static): Enables transport layer impersonation. This allows DNs to impersonate as other users. See [User impersonation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/access-control/impersonation/).
```

- `plugins.security.allow_default_init_securityindex` (Static): When set to `true`, OpenSearch Security will automatically initialize the configuration index with the files in the `/config` directory if the index does not exist.

  This will use well-known default passwords. Use only in a private network/environment.
  {: .warning}

- `plugins.security.allow_unsafe_democertificates` (Static): When set to `true`, OpenSearch starts up with demo certificates. These certificates are issued only for demo purposes.

  These certificates are well known and therefore unsafe for production. Use only in a private network/environment.
  {: .warning}

- `plugins.security.system_indices.permission.enabled` (Static): Enables the system index permissions feature. When set to `true`, the feature is enabled and users with permission to modify roles can create roles that include permissions that grant access to system indexes. When set to `false`, the permission is disabled and only admins with an admin certificate can make changes to system indexes. By default, the permission is set to `false` in a new cluster.

## Expert-level settings

> An expert-level setting should only be configured and deployed by an admin who understands the feature completely. Misunderstandings of a feature can lead to security risks or cause the Security plugin to not operate properly and potential data loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An expert-level setting should only be configured and deployed by an admin who understands the feature completely. Misunderstandings of a feature can lead to security risks, cause the Security plugin to not operate properly, or cause data loss.
```

{: .warning}

The Security plugin supports the following expert-level settings:

- `plugins.security.config_index_name` (Static): The name of the index where `.opendistro_security` stores its configuration.

- `plugins.security.cert.oid` (Static): Defines the Object Identifier (OID) of server node certificates.

> - `plugins.security.cert.intercluster_request_evaluator_class` (Static): Specifies the implementation of `org.opensearch.security.transport.InterClusterRequestEvaluator` that is used to evaluate inter-cluster requests. Instances of `org.opensearch.security.transport.InterClusterRequestEvaluator` must implement a single-argument constructor that takes an `org.opensearch.common.settings.Settings` object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.cert.intercluster_request_evaluator_class` (Static): Specifies the implementation of `org.opensearch.security.transport.InterClusterRequestEvaluator` that is used to evaluate intercluster requests. Instances of `org.opensearch.security.transport.InterClusterRequestEvaluator` must implement a single-argument constructor that takes an `org.opensearch.common.settings.Settings` object.
```

  A snapshot can only be restored when it does not contain global state and does not restore the `.opendistro_security` index.
  {: .note}

- `plugins.security.check_snapshot_restore_write_privileges` (Static): When set to `false`, additional index checks are omitted. When set to the default of `true`, attempts to restore snapshots are evaluated for `indices:admin/create` and `"indices:data/write/index`.

- `plugins.security.cache.ttl_minutes` (Static): Determines how long it takes for authentication caching to time out. The authentication cache helps speed up authentication by temporarily storing user objects returned from the backend so that the Security plugin is not required to make repeated requests for them. Set the value in minutes. The default is `60`. Disable caching by setting the value to `0`.

- `plugins.security.disabled` (Static): Disables OpenSearch Security.

>   This can expose your configuration (including passwords) to the public.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Disabling this plugin can expose your configuration (including passwords) to the public.
```

  {:warning}

> - `plugins.security.protected_indices.enabled` (Static): If set to `true`, enables protected indexes. Protected indexes are even more secure than regular indexes. These indexes require a role to access like any other traditional index, but they also require an additional role to be visible. This setting is used in conjunction with the `plugins.security.protected_indices.roles` and `plugins.security.protected_indices.indices` settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.protected_indices.enabled` (Static): If set to `true`, enables protected indexes. Protected indexes are even more secure than regular indexes. These indexes require a role to access like any other traditional index and require an additional role to be visible. This setting is used in conjunction with the `plugins.security.protected_indices.roles` and `plugins.security.protected_indices.indices` settings.
```

- `plugins.security.audit.config.disabled_categories` (Dynamic): Disables the specified event categories.

- `plugins.security.audit.ignore_requests` (Dynamic): Excludes the specified requests from being logged. Allows wildcards and regular expressions containing actions or REST request paths.

- `plugins.security.audit.threadpool.size` (Static): Determines the number of threads in the thread pool used to log events. Default is `10`. Setting this value to `0` disables the thread pool, which means the plugin logs events synchronously.

- `plugins.security.audit.threadpool.max_queue_len` (Static): Sets the maximum queue length per thread. Default is `100000`.

- `plugins.security.audit.ignore_users` (Dynamic): An array of users. Audit requests from the users in the list will not be logged.

- `plugins.security.audit.type` (Static): The destination of audit log events. Valid values are `internal_opensearch`, `external_opensearch`, `debug`, and `webhook`.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.http_endpoints` (Static): A list of endpoints for `localhost`.

> - `plugins.security.audit.config.index` (Static): The audit log index. The default is `auditlog6`. The index can be static or an index that includes a date so that it rotates on a daily basis. For example: `"'auditlog6-'YYYY.MM.dd"`. In both cases, make sure you secure the index properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.audit.config.index` (Static): The audit log index. The default is `auditlog6`. The index can be static or an index that includes a date so that it rotates on a daily basis, for example, `"'auditlog6-'YYYY.MM.dd"`. In either case, make sure to secure the index properly.
```

- `plugins.security.audit.config.enable_ssl` (Static): Enables or disables SSL for audit logging.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.verify_hostnames` (Static): Enables or disables verification of the hostname for SSL/TLS certificates. Default is `true` (enabled).

- `plugins.security.audit.config.enable_ssl_client_auth` (Static): Enables or disables SSL/TLS client authentication. Default is `false` (disabled).

- `plugins.security.audit.config.cert_alias` (Static): An alias to the certificate used for audit log access.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemkey_filepath` (Static): The `/config` relative file path to the Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) key used for audit logging.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemkey_content` (Static): The Base64-encoded content of the PEM key used for audit logging. This is an alternative to `...config.pemkey_filepath`.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemkey_password` (Static): Password for the PEM-formatted private key used by the client.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemcert_filepath` (Static): The `/config` relative file path to the PEM certificate used for audit logging.

> - `plugins.security.audit.config.pemcert_content` (Static): The Base64-encoded content of the PEM certificate used for audit logging. This is an alternative to specifying the file path with `...config.pemcert_filepath`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemcert_content` (Static): The base64-encoded content of the PEM certificate used for audit logging. This is an alternative to specifying the file path with `...config.pemcert_filepath`.
```

- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemtrustedcas_filepath` (Static): The `/config` relative filepath to trusted root certificate authority.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.pemtrustedcas_content` (Static): The Base64-encoded content of the of the root certificate authority. This is an alternative to `...config.pemtrustedcas_filepath`.

- `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.url` (Static): The webhook URL.

> - `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.format` (Static): The format used for the webhook. Valid values are `URL_PARAMETER_GET`, `URL_PARAMETER_POST`, `TEXT`, `JSON`, `SLACK`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.format` (Static): The format used for the webhook. Valid values are `URL_PARAMETER_GET`, `URL_PARAMETER_POST`, `TEXT`, `JSON`, and `SLACK`.
```

- `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.ssl.verify` (Static): Enables or disables verification of any SSL/TLS certificates sent with any webhook request. Default is `true` (enabled).

- `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.ssl.pemtrustedcas_filepath` (Static): The `/config` relative file path to trusted certificate authority against which webhook requests are verified.

> - `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.ssl.pemtrustedcas_content` (Static): The Base64-encoded content of the certificate authority used to verify webhook requests. This is an alternative to `...config.pemtrustedcas_filepath`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.audit.config.webhook.ssl.pemtrustedcas_content` (Static): The base64-encoded content of the certificate authority used to verify webhook requests. This is an alternative to `...config.pemtrustedcas_filepath`.
```

- `plugins.security.audit.config.log4j.logger_name` (Static): A custom name for the Log4j logger.

> - `plugins.security.audit.config.log4j.level` (Static): Provide a default log level for the Log4j logger. Valid values are `OFF`, `FATAL`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, `TRACE`, and `ALL`. Default is `INFO`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.audit.config.log4j.level` (Static): Provides a default log level for the Log4j logger. Valid values are `OFF`, `FATAL`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO`, `DEBUG`, `TRACE`, and `ALL`. Default is `INFO`. 
```

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.enabled_ciphers` (Static): Enabled TLS cipher suites for the transport layer. Only Java format is supported.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.enabled_protocols` (Static): Enabled TLS protocols for the transport layer. Only Java format is supported.

For more information, see [Enabled ciphers and protocols]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#advanced-enabled-ciphers-and-protocols).

## Key store and trust store files---transport layer TLS settings

The Security plugin supports the following transport layer TLS key store and trust store settings:

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_type` (Static): The type of the key store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Default is `JKS`.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_filepath` (Static): The path to the key store file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_alias` (Static): The key store alias name. Optional. Default is the first alias.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.keystore_password` (Static): The key store password. Default is `changeit`.

> - `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_type` (Static): The type of the trust store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX` Default is `JKS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_type` (Static): The type of the trust store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Default is `JKS`.
```

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_filepath` (Static): The path to the trust store file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_alias` (Static): The trust store alias name. Optional. Default is all certificates.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.truststore_password` (Static): The trust store password. Default is `changeit`.

For more information about key store and trust store files, see [Transport layer TLS]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#transport-layer-tls-1).

## Key store and trust store files---REST layer TLS settings

The Security plugin supports the following REST layer TLS key store and trust store settings:

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled` (Static): Whether to enable TLS on the REST layer. If enabled, only HTTPS is allowed. Optional. Default is `false`.

> - `plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_type` (Static): The type of the key store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX` Default is `JKS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_type` (Static): The type of the key store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Default is `JKS`.
```

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_filepath` (Static): The path to the key store file, which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_alias` (Static):  The key store alias name. Optional. Default is the first alias.

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.keystore_password`: The key store password. Default is `changeit`.

> - `plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_type`: The type of the trust store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX` Default is `JKS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.ssl.http.truststore_type`: The type of the trust store file. Optional. Valid values are `JKS` or `PKCS12/PFX`. Default is `JKS`.
```

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.enable_openssl_if_available` (Static): Enables OpenSSL on the transport layer if available. Optional. Default is `true`.

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.enable_openssl_if_available` (Static): Enables OpenSSL on the REST layer if available. Optional. Default is `true`.

For more information, see [OpenSSL]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#advanced-openssl).

## X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys---transport layer TLS settings

The Security plugin supports the following transport layer TLS settings related to X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys:

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_filepath` (Static): The path to the certificate's key file (PKCS #8), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemkey_password` (Static): The key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.

- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemcert_filepath` (Static): The path to the X.509 node certificate chain (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

> - `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath` (Static): The path to the root CAs (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: "certificate authority" is spelled out throughout this doc. Edited to follow that format.

> - `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath` (Static): The path to the root CAs (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `plugins.security.ssl.transport.pemtrustedcas_filepath` (Static): The path to the root certificate authorities (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.
```

For more information, see [REST layer TLS]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/security/configuration/tls/#transport-layer-tls).

## X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys---REST layer TLS settings

The Security plugin supports the following REST layer TLS settings related to X.509 PEM certificates and PKCS #8 keys:

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.enabled` (Static): Whether to enable TLS on the REST layer. If enabled, only HTTPS is allowed. Optional. Default is `false`.

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_filepath` (Static): The path to the certificate’s key file (PKCS #8), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.pemkey_password` (Static): The key password. Omit this setting if the key has no password. Optional.

- `plugins.security.ssl.http.pemcert_filepath` (Static): The path to the X.509 node certificate chain (PEM format), which must be under the `config` directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

> -  `plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath`: The path to the root CAs (PEM format), which must be under the config directory, specified using a relative path. Required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  `plugins.security.ssl.http.pemtrustedcas_filepath`: The path to the root certificate authorities (PEM format), which must be under the config directory, specified using a relative path. Required.
```
